Update SCIM Docs (#1519)
wandb/docs: content/en/guides/hosting/iam/scim.md

The System for Cross-domain Identity Management (SCIM) API allows instance or organization admins to manage users, groups, and custom roles in their W&B organization. SCIM groups map to W&B teams. 

> The SCIM API is accessible at `<host-url>/scim/` and supports the `/Users` and `/Groups` endpoints with a subset of the fields found in the [RFC7643 protocol](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7643) and [RFC7644 protocol](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7644) for SCIM 2.0. It additionally includes the `/Roles` endpoints which are not part of the official SCIM schema. W&B adds the `/Roles` endpoints to support automated management of custom roles in W&B organizations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SCIM API, which is compatible with SCIM 2.0, is accessible at `<host-url>/scim/`. `/Users` and `/Groups` endpoints support a subset of the fields defined in [RFC7643 (SCIM core)](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7643) and [RFC7644 (SCIM protocol)](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7644), along with `/Roles` endpoints that extend the official SCIM schema. These endpoints allow for automated management of custom roles in a W&B organization.
```

> ### Supported Features

Reviewer: I'm not convinced this section is doing much. What do you think about removing it?

Author: sure!

- **Filtering**: The API supports filtering for `/Users` and `/Groups` endpoints
- **PATCH Operations**: Supports PATCH for partial resource updates
- **ETag Support**: Conditional updates using ETags for conflict detection  
- **Service Account Authentication**: Organization service accounts can access the API

{{% alert %}}

> If you are an admin of multiple Enterprise [SaaS Cloud]({{< relref "/guides/hosting/hosting-options/saas_cloud.md" >}}) organizations, you must configure the organization where SCIM API requests are sent. Click your profile image, then click **User Settings**. The setting is named **Default API organization**. This is required for all hosting options, including [Dedicated Cloud]({{< relref "/guides/hosting/hosting-options/dedicated_cloud.md" >}}), [Self-managed instances]({{< relref "/guides/hosting/hosting-options/self-managed.md" >}}), and [SaaS Cloud]({{< relref "/guides/hosting/hosting-options/saas_cloud.md" >}}). In SaaS Cloud, the organization admin must configure the default organization in user settings to ensure that the SCIM API requests go to the right organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you administer multiple Enterprise [Multi-tenant Cloud]({{< relref "/guides/hosting/hosting-options/saas_cloud.md" >}}) organizations, you must configure the organization where SCIM API requests are sent. Click your profile image, then click **User Settings**. Set **Default API organization** to an organization. This is required for all hosting options, including [Dedicated Cloud]({{< relref "/guides/hosting/hosting-options/dedicated_cloud.md" >}}), [Self-managed instances]({{< relref "/guides/hosting/hosting-options/self-managed.md" >}}), and [SaaS Cloud]({{< relref "/guides/hosting/hosting-options/saas_cloud.md" >}}). In SaaS Cloud, the organization admin must configure the default organization in user settings to ensure that the SCIM API requests go to the right organization.
```
This is weird. What do we mean by mentioning SaaS specifically and then saying it's required for everyone, then reiterating SaaS?

Author: Ooh I think I inserted that first sentence without absorbing the surrounding context. I'll clean this up.

- **Service Account Authentication**: Organization service accounts can access the API

{{% alert %}}

> If you are an admin of multiple Enterprise [SaaS Cloud]({{< relref "/guides/hosting/hosting-options/saas_cloud.md" >}}) organizations, you must configure the organization where SCIM API requests are sent to ensure SCIM API requests sent using your API Key affect the correct organization. Click your profile image, then click **User Settings**. The setting is named **Default API organization**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are an admin of multiple Enterprise [Multi-tenant SaaS]({{< relref "/guides/hosting/hosting-options/saas_cloud.md" >}}) organizations, you must configure the organization where SCIM API requests are sent to ensure SCIM API requests sent using your API Key affect the correct organization. Click your profile image, then click **User Settings**, then check the setting **Default API organization**.
```

The chosen hosting option determines the value for the `<host-url>` placeholder used in the examples in this page.

In addition, examples use user IDs such as `abc` and `def`. Real requests and responses have hashed values for user IDs.
{{% /alert %}}

## Authentication

> Choose between personal user authentication and service account authentication based on the differences below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Choose to authenticate using a user identity or a service account, after reviewing the key differences.
```

### Key differences
- Who should use it: Users are best for interactive, one-off admin actions; service accounts are best for automation and integrations (CI/CD, provisioning tools).
- Credentials: Users send username and API key; service accounts send only an API key (no username).
- Authorization header payload: Users encode `username:API-KEY`; service accounts encode `:API-KEY` (leading colon).
- Scope and permissions: Both require admin privileges; service accounts are organization-scoped and headless, providing clearer audit trails for automation.
- Where to get credentials: Users copy their API key from User Settings; service account keys are in the organization’s Service account tab.
- SaaS Cloud org targeting: For multi-org admins, set the Default API organization to ensure requests affect the intended org.

### Users
Use your personal admin credentials when performing interactive admin tasks. Construct the HTTP `Authorization` header as `Basic <base64(username:API-KEY)>`.

> Example: to authorize as `demo:p@55w0rd`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, authorize as `demo:p@55w0rd`:
```

```bash
Authorization: Basic ZGVtbzpwQDU1dzByZA==
```

### Service accounts
Use an organization-scoped service account for automation or integrations. Construct the HTTP `Authorization` header as `Basic <base64(:API-KEY)>` (note the leading colon and empty username). Find service account API keys in the organization dashboard under the **Service account** tab. Refer to [Organization-scoped service accounts]({{< relref "/guides/hosting/iam/authentication/service-accounts.md/#organization-scoped-service-accounts" >}}).

> Example: to authorize with API key `sa-p@55w0rd`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, authorize with API key `sa-p@55w0rd`:
```

In addition, examples use user IDs such as `abc` and `def`. Real requests and responses have hashed values for user IDs.
{{% /alert %}}

## Code Examples

> For practical Python examples demonstrating how to interact with the SCIM API, visit our [SCIM examples repository](https://github.com/wandb/examples/tree/master/wandb-scim).

Reviewer: I'd move this paragraph up to the end of the overview and lose the heading.

> For practical Python examples demonstrating how to interact with the SCIM API, visit our [SCIM examples repository](https://github.com/wandb/examples/tree/master/wandb-scim).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For practical Python examples demonstrating how to interact with the SCIM API, visit the [`wandb-scim`](https://github.com/wandb/examples/tree/master/wandb-scim) repository.
```

## Authentication

> Access to the SCIM API can be authenticated in two ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section explains how to authenticate to the SCIM API as a human user or a service account.
```

Reviewer: Github isn't letting me comment on lines 44 and 48. I would suggest rewriting these to just show the headers set correctly. They both use BASIC auth with base-64 encoding. I'd show the differences rather than the similarities.

Author: Rewrote this section ✅

Retrieves a list of all users in your organization.

> #### Filtering Users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Filter Users
```

> The `/Users` endpoint supports filtering to search for specific users:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `/Users` endpoint supports filtering users by username or email:
```

> ##### Supported Filters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

To temporarily deactivate the user, refer to [Deactivate user](#deactivate-user) API which uses the `PATCH` endpoint.
{{% /alert %}}

> ### Update User Email (Single Tennant instances only)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Update user email
**Not supported for Multi-tenant Cloud**, where a user's account is not managed by the organization.
```

> Updates a user's primary email address. This operation is only available in self-managed single-tenant deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Updates a user's primary email address.
```

#### Endpoint
- **URL**: `<host-url>/scim/Users/{id}`
- **Method**: PATCH

#### Parameters

> | Parameter | Type | Required | Description |

Reviewer: An Example column might be good, before Description.

Reviewer: Did you decide against this idea?

|-----------|------|----------|-------------|

> | id | string | Yes | The unique ID of the user |

Reviewer: Mark up the first column using code font.

> | op | string | Yes | Must be "replace" |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| op | string | Yes | `replace` |
```

> | path | string | Yes | Must be "emails" |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| path | string | Yes | `emails` |
```
I would have expected the singular.

| value | array | Yes | Array with new email object |

#### Example

{{< tabpane text=true >}}

> {{% tab header="Update Email Request" %}}

Reviewer: I suspect these should just be "Request" and "Response" for tab headings. We are already in the section. Same feedback below.

Author: If I call all of the tabs "Request" or "Response", it seems to link them all together, so opening any single request tab will open all request tabs on the page. This is why I opted to make them unique

Reviewer: Oh, well I think that is actually the intended behavior for how tabs work in our docs. The other Request/Response ones are also linked together like that. WDYT?

```bash
PATCH /scim/Users/abc
```

```json
{
    "schemas": ["urn:ietf:params:scim:api:messages:2.0:PatchOp"],
    "Operations": [
        {
            "op": "replace",
            "path": "emails",
            "value": [
                {
                    "value": "newemail@example.com",
                    "primary": true
                }
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab header="Update Email Response" %}}
```bash
(Status 200)
```

```json
{
    "active": true,
    "displayName": "Dev User 1",
    "emails": {
        "Value": "newemail@example.com",
        "Display": "",
        "Type": "",
        "Primary": true
    },
    "id": "abc",
    "meta": {
        "resourceType": "User",
        "created": "2023-10-01T00:00:00Z",
        "lastModified": "2023-10-01T00:00:00Z",
        "location": "Users/abc"
    },
    "schemas": [
        "urn:ietf:params:scim:schemas:core:2.0:User"
    ],
    "userName": "dev-user1"
}
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabpane >}}

> ### Update User Display Name (Self-managed instances only)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Update user display name
**Not supported for Multi-tenant Cloud**, where a user's account is not managed by the organization.
```

Updates a user's display name. This operation is only available in self-managed single-tenant deployments.

#### Endpoint
- **URL**: `<host-url>/scim/Users/{id}`
- **Method**: PATCH

#### Parameters

> | Parameter | Type | Required | Description |

Reviewer: Similar feedback as previous table

|-----------|------|----------|-------------|
| id | string | Yes | The unique ID of the user |
| op | string | Yes | Must be "replace" |
| path | string | Yes | Must be "displayName" |
| value | string | Yes | New display name |

#### Example

{{< tabpane text=true >}}

> {{% tab header="Update Display Name Request" %}}

Reviewer: Similar feedback about the tab names

Author: https://github.com/wandb/docs/pull/1519#discussion_r2291725295

```bash
PATCH /scim/Users/abc
```

```json
{
    "schemas": ["urn:ietf:params:scim:api:messages:2.0:PatchOp"],
    "Operations": [
        {
            "op": "replace",
            "path": "displayName",
            "value": "John Doe"
        }
    ]
}
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab header="Update Display Name Response" %}}
```bash
(Status 200)
```

```json
{
    "active": true,
    "displayName": "John Doe",
    "emails": {

>         "Value": "dev-user1@test.com",

Reviewer: Use `example.com` for examples. :) `test.com` is a real domain, I think.

        "Display": "",
        "Type": "",
        "Primary": true
    },
    "id": "abc",
    "meta": {
        "resourceType": "User",
        "created": "2023-10-01T00:00:00Z",
        "lastModified": "2023-10-01T00:00:00Z",

>         "location": "Users/abc"

Reviewer: It's a good chance to use a real-world example location, I guess. And why use 2023 dates in 2025? :)

    },
    "schemas": [
        "urn:ietf:params:scim:schemas:core:2.0:User"
    ],
    "userName": "dev-user1"
}
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabpane >}}

> ### Deactivate User

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deactivate user
```
We use sentence case for headings and titles.

> Temporarily deactivates a user in your organization.

Reviewer: What makes it temporary??

Author: Probably not the best word, but deactivating a user does not delete their account, it just disables it. I'll update that.

#### Parameters
| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
|-----------|------|----------|-------------|
| `id` | string | Yes | The unique ID of the user to deactivate |
| `op` | string | Yes | `replace` |
| `value` | object | Yes | Object with `{"active": false}` |

{{% alert %}}

> User deactivation and reactivation operations are not supported in [SaaS Cloud]({{< relref "/guides/hosting/hosting-options/saas_cloud.md" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
User deactivation and reactivation operations are not supported in [Multi-tenant Cloud]({{< relref "/guides/hosting/hosting-options/saas_cloud.md" >}}).
```

> The SCIM group resource maps to W&B teams, that is, when you create a SCIM group in a W&B deployment, it creates a W&B team. Same applies to other group endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you create a SCIM group in your IAM, it creates and maps to a W&B Team, and other SCIM group operations operate on the team.
```

### Service Accounts

> When a team is created via SCIM, all organization-level service accounts are automatically added as members of the team. This ensures service accounts maintain access to team resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a W&B Team is created using SCIM, all organization-level service accounts are automatically added to the team, to maintain the service account's access to team resources.
```

> ### Filtering Groups

Reviewer: similar feedback to other Filtering section

{{% alert %}}
The remove operations follow RFC 7644 SCIM protocol specifications. Use the filter syntax `members[value eq "{user_id}"]` to remove a specific user, or `members` to remove all users from the team.

**User Identification**: The `{user_id}` in member operations can be either:
- A W&B user ID
- An email address (e.g., "user@example.com")
{{% /alert %}}

{{% alert color="info" %}}
Replace `{team_id}` with the actual team ID and `{user_id}` with the actual user ID or email address in your requests.
{{% /alert %}}

### Replace team members

Replaces all members of a team with a new list.

- **Endpoint**: **`<host-url>/scim/Groups/{id}`**
- **Method**: PUT
- **Description**: Replace the entire team membership list.

{{< tabpane text=true >}}
{{% tab header="Request" %}}
```bash
PUT /scim/Groups/{team_id}
```

```json
{
    "schemas": ["urn:ietf:params:scim:schemas:core:2.0:Group"],
    "displayName": "wandb-devs",
    "members": [
        {
            "value": "{user_id_1}"
        },
        {
            "value": "{user_id_2}"
        }
    ]
}
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab header="Response" %}}
```bash
(Status 200)
```

```json
{

>     "displayName": "wandb-devs",

Reviewer: I bet there is a better example display name that doesn't make it look like this is W&B's SCIM org.

    "id": "ghi",
    "members": [
        {
            "Value": "user_id_1",

>             "Ref": "",

Reviewer: What are these fields for? Must we include them if they are empty? Would it be better to show some actual values?

}
```

### Update custom role

#### Add permissions to role

- **Endpoint**: **`<host-url>/scim/Roles/{id}`**
- **Method**: PATCH

> - **Description**: Add permissions to an existing custom role.

Reviewer: Where are the possible permissions listed? Do we want to show how to list the custom role's current permissions first? What about creating a custom role?

{{< tabpane text=true >}}
{{% tab header="Request" %}}
```bash
PATCH /scim/Roles/{role_id}
```

```json
{
    "schemas": ["urn:ietf:params:scim:api:messages:2.0:PatchOp"],
    "Operations": [
        {
            "op": "add",
            "path": "permissions",
            "value": [
                {
                    "name": "project:delete"
                },
                {
                    "name": "run:stop"
                }
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab header="Response" %}}
```bash
(Status 200)
```

Returns the updated role with new permissions added.
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabpane >}}

> #### Remove permissions from role

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Remove a permission from a role
```
Is this different from some update to the role?

- **Endpoint**: **`<host-url>/scim/Roles/{id}`**
- **Method**: PATCH
- **Description**: Remove permissions from an existing custom role.

{{< tabpane text=true >}}
{{% tab header="Request" %}}
```bash
PATCH /scim/Roles/{role_id}
```

```json
{
    "schemas": ["urn:ietf:params:scim:api:messages:2.0:PatchOp"],
    "Operations": [
        {
            "op": "remove",
            "path": "permissions",
            "value": [
                {

>                     "name": "project:delete"

Reviewer: It's confusing that we are _removing_ a permission to _delete_, maybe choose a different permission for this example.

```bash
DELETE /scim/Roles/abc
```

## Advanced Features

### ETag Support

The SCIM API supports ETags for conditional updates to prevent concurrent modification conflicts. ETags are returned in the `ETag` response header and the `meta.version` field.

> #### Using ETags

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use ETags:
```

1. **Get current ETag**: When you GET a resource, note the ETag header in the response
2. **Conditional update**: Include the ETag in the `If-Match` header when updating

> #### Example with ETag

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Example
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: These are not shell commands.

# Get user and note ETag
GET /scim/Users/abc
# Response includes: ETag: W/"xyz123"

# Update with ETag
PATCH /scim/Users/abc
If-Match: W/"xyz123"

{
    "schemas": ["urn:ietf:params:scim:api:messages:2.0:PatchOp"],
    "Operations": [
        {
            "op": "replace",
            "path": "organizationRole",
            "value": "admin"
        }
    ]
}
```

> If the resource has been modified since you retrieved it, the server will return a `412 Precondition Failed` error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `412 Precondition Failed` error response indicates that the resources has been modified since you retrieved it.
```

> ### Multi-tenant SCIM Extensions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### SCIM Extensions for Multi-tenant Cloud
```
Can you check to make sure we are calling Multi-tenant Cloud the proper name? I see several variations in this content.

For SaaS Cloud deployments, the API supports additional schema extensions for team management during user creation:

#### Schema Extension
- **Schema ID**: `urn:ietf:params:scim:schemas:extension:teams:2.0:User`
- **Purpose**: Assign users to teams during creation

> #### Example: Create user with team assignment (SaaS multi-tenant only)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Example: Create user and assign team
```
The whole H3 is already constrained to Multi-tenant Cloud

```json
{
    "schemas": [
        "urn:ietf:params:scim:schemas:core:2.0:User",
        "urn:ietf:params:scim:schemas:extension:teams:2.0:User"
    ],
    "emails": [
        {
            "primary": true,
            "value": "newuser@example.com"
        }
    ],
    "userName": "newuser",
    "urn:ietf:params:scim:schemas:extension:teams:2.0:User": {
        "teams": ["engineering", "ml-team"]
    }
}
```

> ### Error Handling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Error handling
```
Should this be an H2?

The SCIM API returns standard SCIM error responses:

| Status Code | Description |
|-------------|-------------|

> | 200 | Success |

Reviewer: Code font for status codes. Are these descriptions actually shown in the error or is this just your description of what the status codes mean? If the former, they should also be code font.

| 201 | Created |
| 204 | No Content (successful deletion) |
| 400 | Bad Request - Invalid parameters or request body |
| 401 | Unauthorized - Authentication failed |
| 403 | Forbidden - Insufficient permissions |
| 404 | Not Found - Resource does not exist |
| 409 | Conflict - Resource already exists |
| 412 | Precondition Failed - ETag mismatch |
| 500 | Internal Server Error |

> ### Implementation Differences

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Implementation differences per deployment type
```

W&B maintains two separate SCIM API implementations, and the features differ between them:

> | Feature | SaaS Multi-tenant | Self-managed Single-tenant |

Reviewer: Please fix the tier names. "Dedicated Cloud / Self-Managed" is fine for the second one.

In the table, please use  `-` for not supported and `&check;` for supported. No emojis, and no need to also say "Supported / Not supported".

|---------|-------------------|---------------------------|
| Update user email | ❌ Not supported | ✅ Supported |
| Update user display name | ❌ Not supported | ✅ Supported |
| User deactivation/reactivation | ❌ Not supported | ✅ Supported |
| Multiple emails per user | ✅ Supported | ❌ Single email only |

> ### Limitations

Reviewer: This looks like an H2.

}
```

A `412 Precondition Failed` error response indicates that the resources has been modified since you retrieved it.

### Error handling

The SCIM API returns standard SCIM error responses:

| Status Code | Description |
|-------------|-------------|
| `200` | Success |
| `201` | Created |
| `204` | No Content (successful deletion) |
| `400` | Bad Request - Invalid parameters or request body |
| `401` | Unauthorized - Authentication failed |
| `403` | Forbidden - Insufficient permissions |
| `404` | Not Found - Resource does not exist |
| `409` | Conflict - Resource already exists |
| `412` | Precondition Failed - ETag mismatch |
| `500` | Internal Server Error |

### Implementation differences per deployment type

W&B maintains two separate SCIM API implementations, and the features differ between them:

> | Feature | Dedicated Cloud | Self-Managed |

Reviewer: I think we need a Multi-tenant Cloud column now, right?
